java c
CSCI 421 
Numerical   Computing,   Spring   2025 
Homework   Assignment   4 
1.    (Taken   from   AG   Ex   4.9,   reworded   for   clarity).    Let
Carry out all the steps   of   GEPP   (Gauss   Elimination   with   Partial   Piv-   oting)   on   this   matrix,   writing   out   the   matrices   M(i),   P(i)   ,   i   =   1,   2,   3,   giving   the   upper   triangular   matrix
Also   determine   the   matrices   M(˜)(i)   ,   i   =   1,   2,   3,   which   should,   like   the   M(i),   be   unit   lower   triangular   (see   AG,   p.   121).      Then   compute

and   L   =      M(˜)—1,   which   should   also   be   unit   lower   triangular.         Finally check   that,   as   desired,
PA =   LU.You   can   use   a   mix   of   hand   calculations   and   matlab   calculations,   as   you   ﬁnd   convenient.      And you   can   double check   that   you   got   the   right   ﬁnal   answer   with   the   matlab command    [L,U,P]=lu(A).
For   the   remainder   of the   homework,   see   next   pageA   Truss   Problem A typical task in structural engineering   is   to   design   a   bridge to   be   strong      enough      to      withstand      a      certain    load.       Consider    the    following    plane    truss,      which   is   a   set   of   metal   bars   connected   by   frictionless   pin   joints.      (“Plane”   refers   to   the   fact   that   the   truss   is   two-dimensional,   not   three-dimensional      as   it   would   be   in   reality.)    The   symbol   at   the   left   end   of the   truss   indicates      that   it   is ﬁxed   at   that   end, while the   symbol   at   the   right   end   indicates   that      the   truss   is   free   to   move   horizontally,   but   not   vertically.    The   three   arrows      pointing   down   represent   loads   on   the   truss.The      problem      is   to      solve      a      linear      system      of   equations      for   the    internal   forces   in   the   bars.    A   positive   internal   force   indicates   that   the   bar   is   being   extended   (pulled   apart   a   little),   by   the   load,   while   a   negative   internal   force   indicates   that   the   bar   is   being      compressed.      It   is   assumed   that,   as   long   as   the   internal   forces   are   not   too   big,   bars   will   not   be   stretched   or   compressed   more than   a tiny   amount:    thus the structure does not   collapse,   but   remains   in      equilibrium.       By    computing    the    internal      forces,    an    engineer      has      more   information   as   to   whether   the   truss   is   indeed   strong   enough   to   withstand   the   load.There   are two   linear   equations   for each   internal joint   in the truss,   repre-   senting   forces in the horizontal   and vertical   direction   which   must   balance   at   the   joints.    Let   us   denote   the   internal   forces   by 儿1   , 儿2   ,   . . . , 儿13,   correspond-   ing   to   the   numbers   on   the   bars   in   the   illustration.    The   balancing   of   forces   at joint   C   in   the   horizontal   direction   gives   the   equation
x4   = x8 
while the   balancing   of forces   at joint   C   in   the   vertical direction   gives   simply
x7      =   0.
The   balancing   of   forces   at joint   B   in   the   horizontal   direction   gives
x2   =   x6while   the   vertical   direction   at joint   B   givesx3      =   10.The    “10”    comes      from   the    10   ton   vertical    load      at   joint      B.      The   balancing   of   forces   at   joint   A   is   a   little   more   complicated,   since   it   involves   two   bars   oriented   at   an   angle   of 45   degrees   as   well   as   a   horizontal   and   a   vertical   bar.   Let      Q   =      cos(π/4)    =    sin(π/4)    = √2/2.   Then   the    balancing   of   horizontal forces   at joint   A   gives   the   equationαx1      =   x4   + αx5
and   the   balancing   of   vertical   forces   at joint   A   gives
αx1   + x3   + αx5      = 0.There   are   also   horizontal   and   vertical   force   equations   at joints   D,   E   and   F   which   can   be   derived   using   the   same   ideas.    These   amount   to   12   equations   altogether.      The   13th   equation   comes   from   the   right   end   point   G:   since   this   end   point   is   free   to   move   horizontally,   but   not   vertically,   there   is   just   one   force   equation,   balancing   the   forces   horizontally:x13   + αx12      =   0.
Thus,   we   have   a   total   of   13   linear   equations   deﬁning   the   13   internal   force   variables.
2.    Derive   and   solve   the   13   linear   equations   in   13   variables.    Write   the   equations      using      matrix      notation,    as      Ax      =    b,    and      enter      the      matrix   A   and   right-hand      side   vector      b   in      a      matlab   function.       You      should   start   by   allocating   the   space   for   A   like   this:    A=zeros(13,13).       Or-   der   the   variables   corresponding   to   bars   1,   2,   3,   . . .   and   the   equations   corresponding   to   nodes   A,   B,   C,   . . . .      Then   solve   the   system   of   linear   equations   using   the   matlab   backslash   operator:    x = A\b.      You    can   put this in the function too, and   return   x,   the   vector   of internal   forces,   as   an   output   parameter   of   the   function.      Print   the   solution   vector   x   (in   any   format).    Mark   the   bars   on   a   copy   of   the   truss   picture   given   above   indicating   which   internal   force   is   an   extension   force      (xj         >   0)   and   which   is   a   compression   force      (xj      < 0). Leave the bar unmarked if the internal force is zero. It’s ﬁne to do this by hand, although you can write a program to do this if you want.
3.    Generalization:    Write    a   new   function   that   sets   up   and   solves   the   equations    for    a    variable-sized      truss,       with    k    sections       exactly    like      the   section ABCDEF instead   of one, so that two neighboring sections share   a   verti代 写CSCI 421 Numerical Computing, Spring 2025 Homework Assignment 4Matlab
代做程序编程语言cal   bar,   with   the   EF   bar   from   one   section   identical   to   the   AB   bar for the next section, where k is an   input parameter to the   function.   Note   that   this   means   4   new   nodes   and   8   new   bars   for   each   increase   of   k by   1.    This will   require   some   careful thought.    Start   by   sketching   the   larger truss on paper and carefully writing down the relevant equations   systematically.      Use   orderings   for   the   variables   (i.e.,   the   bars)   and   the   equations      (i.e.,    the      nodes)   that      are      consistent      with      the      case      k      =      1.   Include plenty   of comments   explaining the   code.    Don’t   forget   to   start   by allocating the space for A by A=zeros(n,n), where   n depends on   k.   Make   sure   you   recover   the   previous   solution   when   k   =   1,   and   then   go   on to   test   larger values   of k,   with   a   load   vector   that   increases   like   this   from   left   to   right:      10,   20,   30,   40,   50, . . .   .      Print   the   computed   internal force   vector   x for   k =   10.    There   is   no   need   to   plot   the   truss.
4.    Sparsity:      The      bandwidth      of      A      (see      AG,    section      5.1)    is      deﬁned      as   p+q   -   1 where p and q are the smallest   nonnegative   integers   such   that
ai,j      = 0            if            i   ≥   j   +   p               or               j   ≥ i + q. You   can   visualize   this   using   spy   to   display   the   nonzero   entries   in   the   matrix   A,   say,   for   k   =   10.       What      is      the      bandwidth      of   this      matrix      A? Would   it   be   signiﬁcantly   di       erent   if   you    chose    di       erent    orderings,    say   numbering    all   the    top   horizontal    bars   ﬁrst,    then    the    vertical    and   diag-   onal    bars,    and    then    the    bottom    horizontal    bars?    You    can    answer   this   either   by      a   clear      explanation,      or      changing   the   order      and   displaying   the   results   with   spy.   Also   give   the   bandwidth   for   A—1 (the   inverse   of   A,   computed   by   inv(A))   and   for   the   L   and   U   factors   obtained   from   [L,U] = lu(A).   Remember   that   when   you   request   only   two   output   arguments      from      lu,      the      ﬁrst,    L,    is      not    actually      lower      triangular      if   pivoting   (row   interchanges)   takes   place;   it   is   permuted   lower   triangu-   lar      (or   “psychologically”   lower   triangular).    Did   pivoting   occur?      How   sparse   are   A—1 ,   L   and   U,   compared   with   the   sparsity   of   A?    Answer   this   carefully,   comparing   the   four   diferent   spy   plots.      You   don’t   need   to   use      matlab’s      sparse for   this   question,      although   you      can   if   you   want   (the   spy   ﬁgures   should   be   the   same).
5.    Timing    Comparsions:      Execution      of      matlab   code      can      be      timed   using   either   timeit   or   tic   .   .   .toc (see here for   details).    Experiment   with   how   long   it   takes   to   solve   the   system   of   equations   for   k   that   is large    enough    that    timing      comparisons       are    meaningful.         Compare    the   following:
•   x=A\b
•   getting   x by   ﬁrst   computing   A—1 and   multiplying   it   onto   b
•   getting x by ﬁrst computing the L and U factors with lu   and then   solving   the   two   triangular   systems   Ly   =   b   and   Ux   =   y   using   \.   (This   is   what   is   actually   going   on   when   you   type   x=A\b,   so   the   timing   should   be   about   the   same.)
•   the same 3 again,   but   with   A set   up   as   a   sparse   matrix   instead   of   the default   “full” or dense   matrix   type;   type help   sparse   for   in-   formation as to how this works.   In particular, to initialize thema-   trix to   the   sparse zero   matrix,   you   need to   write   A=sparse(n,n)   (if   you   use   A=sparse(1,1)   it   should   work   but   it   will   be   slower   because   the   data   structure   will   change   every   time   you   assign   a   new matrix   entry;   do   not   use A=sparse(1)   which will   generate   a   sparse   matrix   with   a11      =   1).      And   if you   don’t   initialize   A   at   all,   it   will   be   full,   not   sparse,   by   default.         This   means   editing   your   function that sets up A accordingly;   add an input   parameter   that   determines   whether   A   is   to   be   set   up   as   a   full   (dense)   or   sparse   matrix.
How   do the execution   times   compare?    Does this   relate to   the   sparsity   displayed   in   the   spy   plots?Finally   compare   the   timings   for   larger   values   of   k.         Do   this   just   for   solving      with      x=A\b,    but      for      two    cases:         A   is      full    (dense),    and    A   is   sparse.   Avoid   making   k   too   large   as   then   the   full   case   may   run   out   of   memory.   Plot   both running times   on   one plot   as   a   function   of   k   using   semilogy,   legend,   title,   xlabel,   ylabel.   Then   make   a   second   plot   of the   running   times   for   the   sparse   case   only,   which   should   allow   you   to   make   k   much   larger   –   but   don’t   make   it   so   large   that   you   have   to   wait   more   than   a   few   minutes   for   the   program   to   run.Submit:         listings      of   the    matlab   functions,    the    marked      truss      picture      re-   quested   in   #2,   the   output   x for   the   original   truss   and   the   generalized   truss   with   k   =   10,   the   plots   generated   by   spy   for   k   =   10,   the   derivation   of   the   equations   for   both   the   original   and   the   generalized   truss,   the   results   of the   timing   comparisons,   including the   plots   of running times   as   a   function   of k   ,   and   answers   to   all   the   questions   above.

         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
